# Code for Computational Physics at Imperial (fall of 2019)

## Build instructions

To build and run the project, use `make` or `make run` (faster, no test). To only build the project
binary, use `make project`.

To build and run all assignment code with default data and generate the assignment report a simple
`make assignment` should suffice.

To generate the submitted report run `make pdf` and to generate the submitted ZIP archive run `make zip`.

## PNG and other Graph Formats

There have been complaints about the graphs being generated as `.pdf` files. When running `make pdf`,
the graphs are generated in `.pdf` format to produce a high-quality report document. If the marker
wishes to inspect the graphs in some other format (e.g. `.png`), they are free to run `./main -graph`,
in the `/project` directory. (Run `./main` to see available options and make sure to build the project
first!)

## Heavy Calculation

There is the option to run a time-intensive calculation. Use the `-heavy` flag when running the
project binary (i.e. `./main -heavy`). Running this may take some time.

For markers inclined to save time, here is the output of this command:

    Running heavy calculation. This may take a while ...
    INFO: 20000000000 steps max at 1e-06 target accuracy
    Result: P = 0.4976607485895988
    Statistics:
    &{19999997952 1.9059153608037185e-06 integral did not converge}
    Time elapsed: 11m44.577711857s (35.22888920028826 nanosecond/sample)

## Running Tests

To run tests, use `make test`. (To see a code coverage breakdown, use `make cover`.)

## Build prerequisites

This project uses Go. To build the go source, multiple open source compilers are available. See
[the Go website](https://golang.org) for more information on how to obtain a compiler for your
operating system and architecture.

### Installation example macOS

If you are using homebrew on macOs, the installation should be as simple as:
```bash
brew install golang
```

### Installation example Ubuntu

If you are using Ubuntu, you might want to install Go using snap:
```bash
sudo snap install --classic go
```

### Notes on removing the Go installation

Any files generated by Go when building this project will either be located in this folder, or in
`$HOME/go` (unless you manually changed your `GOPATH`, run `go help gopath` for more information).

To remove everything, deinstall Go using your package manager, then delete `$HOME/go`.


## Contained folders

- `/assignment` --- answers to assignment problems
- `/pdf` ---------- LaTeX code for submission PDFs
- `/pkg` ---------- reusable packages
- `/problems` ----- answers to problem sheets
- `/project` ------ project binary code


## License

Unless explicitly stated otherwise, the code in this repository is authored by _Tilman Roeder_ and
licensed under the MIT license (seen `LICENSE`).
